Disclaimer: what is a Sun-like star? This term means different things to different people. A very liberal definition 
with regard to exoplanets, and one I rather like, is a star cool enough to have a convective outer layer (~6500 
Kelvin, spectral type F5 roughly) but warm enough so that an orbiting planet in the so-called habitable zone 
(hereafter HZ, but remember there's a `so-called' in that acronym) is not tidally locked. From order of magnitude 
estimates, I put this right around K7/M0, half a solar mass, 3800 K). 

Other people use different things though. Mamajek and Hillenbrand (2008) use F7-K2, for stellar activity related 
reasons; this is the definition that Wikipedia has taken up.

For this, I'm going to take a conservative view of the convective boundary (F7) and go down to the end of K dwarfs. 
From mass-luminosity relation arguments, there will be fewer K dwarfs at the end of our sample satisfying various 
magnitude cuts, so this cutoff is less important than the high mass cutoff. We may also want a more stringent cutoff 
at the high-mass end, because these stars get large very quickly, making it harder to observe a 1 R_e object 
(80 ppm becomes a 2 R_e planet before you know it).

(End disclaimer).

Montet:  Can you give us some statistics on target densities?  We would like to know how many G stars down 
to various magnitude limits in the Kepler field and in one of these "zero-torque" fields.  Also, can you 
take what we learned at ExoSamsi (perhaps consult DFM and others) to give a sense of how many G star targets 
are non-variable enough that Earth-like planets should be possible.  Also make some sensible calls about what 
temperature range is reasonable to answer the "sun-like star" questions.


Statstics: Done using TRILEGAL (Girardi et al. 2002). Assume our stars are bounded by log g > 3.5 (to remove 
giants), 3800 K (loosened in making the plots) < T < 6500 K. I'll make some plots. 

Trilegal inputs: 5 square degrees, centered on 19:45:00, 43:00:00; 19:25, 44:00:00; provides average values 
for the third of the Kepler field closest to-> furthest from the galactic plane. Middle obs is middle of Kepler 
field. This gives a representative sample of each part of the field; summing over this approximates the entire 
Kepler field. We then turn binaries off, since we won't know about them in the KIC. Our target sample has already 
turned off binaries effectively.

Extinction based off of Schlegel, Finkbeiner and Davis 1998: 0.6577; 0.4544; 0.18, respectively. Return all stars 
with Kp < 17. Too faint, but we can then make cuts internally. The original Kepler target list goes down to 
Kp = 16, but we probably want to avoid the faint end, as these are suboptimal for EL planets and SL stars.

Plot of resultant distribution is given.

Now let's do the ecliptic plane: 8.3333 sq degree fields, at [0,0] (extinction 0.0978) and, [6, 23.5], [5.5, 19], 
and [5.0, 14.5] (Extinctions [3.27, 1.50, 1.12]). We expect the galaxy around [0,0] to not change much, so one 
simulation is sufficent; we integrate across three points near the disk to roughly simulate the expanse of the 
Kepler fields of view.

For a refresher, you can go to http://www.uni.edu/morgans/astro/course/Notes/section2/spectraltemps.html to 
remind yourself of the relationships of spectral type vs temperature vs luminosity. 

There must be some roughly diagonal line going from bright, large stars to dim, small stars where a 1 R_e planet 
is detectable, which is a function of stellar noise. The photon noise is quantifiable, while the intrinsic noise
is harder to quantify. The current Kepler mission goes to 16th magnitude, although a more realistic system 
around which an 80 ppm transit could be observed is probably more like 14th magnitude. There are a few thousand 
up to perhaps fifteen thousand stars depending on where you look, with more success closer to the plane of the 
galaxy.

How Sun-like we want to go probably depends on how many targets we can observe, which is a function of the 
cadence we want data downloaded at. There are 512 targets on SC and ~160,000 targets on LC (~1 and ~29 minute 
integrations), so this can be presumably scaled to whatever data rate we want. I believe I worked out previously
this would suggest 12,000 targets with 2 minute cadence, which would mean we could (should?) use this entire 
temperature range as a measure of Sun-like stars. I think this is a good idea, because it also gives some leverage 
on the distribution of planets with stellar mass (are Sun-like stars normal? Are slightly sub-Solar stars more 
planet poor?).



Montet:  Expand your argument that we can still answer these Earth-like planet questions with a very different 
field-target cadence strategy. 

Coming...
